Previously on Criminal Minds Evolution.
They will let anybody up on the sixth
floor now.
Alves and I are retired Army Grunts.
We met in the ARC program.
The Army Recovery Care Program.
We help ill and injured service members
reintegrate into civilian life.
The tumor spread.
There's nothing else we can do.
I'm sorry.
Hey. sorry to interrupt.
Do you have a second?
Excuse me.
Did you notice how he checked you out?
You look like his wife who just left him.
Welcome to the Sicarius Files.
I'm your host. Brian Garrity.
My guest. the Sicarius killer himself.
Elias Wort.
Saved you a bunch of fan letters.
It's sad how pathetic I am. but you know
it's even more pathetic?
Someone who makes a show about it.
And anyone who listens to it.
Lance Kingston is
the one who took those
photos. but he's not the
guy who sent it to you.
Turns out your fans stole them.
Lance. he just means to an M. he's a
sacrificial pawn.
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm
Primitive breach. ground floor.
low on casualty. out of corridor.
Do you have visual?
Negative.
Oh. my lead.
Moving.
Agent's under fire. we'd be back if
immediately.
Copy.
Back is on the way.
Shut up.
Please.
You take one more fucking step.
Easy now.
You want to help?
I don't want to die.
No one's gonna get hurt.
Don't you fucking lie to her.
Sir. just put the gun down.
What's your name?
Fuck you.
That's my name.
Why are you keeping him from me?
Keeping what from you. sir?
My meds.
I need my goddamn meds.
Okay.
Put the gun down.
Let the woman go and I beg.
You think I don't fucking see you over
there?
Huh?
You want this little lady to die?
No. sir.
Sir. we do not.
And give me my goddamn meds.
Agent Bull is target acquired.
Negative.
Reposition.
Acquire target.
Miss.
What's your name?
No.
Go!
Talk to her!
You talk to me!
Command target has been acquired.
You understand?
I have the shot.
This guy over here. huh?
This guy over here. he wants to kill me so
bad that he can taste it.
He said. what if he misses?
And this little one tastes the head.
sir.
Enough of this bullshit.
Okay?
I'm gonna count three.
Another. you get me my goddamn meds.
Or I'm gonna blow her fucking head off.
Bull. you're clear.
Send it.
Okay?
One.
Just give him what he wants.
Two. sir.
You kill her. we kill you.
Take the shot.
Three!
What the fuck?
I take the shot.
Alicia.
What'd you do?
Abort. abort the exercise.
That was a life fucking round.
Holy shit.
Get O'Connor.
O'Connor.
We need medical.
Stat.
Secure weapons now.
Magazine check.
I got blanks.
Same.
Billy?
Billy. we're unarmed.
Okay?
Put down the gun.
It's autism. Billy.
Medical's coming.
He's dead.
I took the shot.
Security.
Initiate lockdown.
Now. we have an active shooter.
This is not a drill.
I repeat.
Billy. in about 30
seconds. the real deal
is barreling in here
and they will kill you.
Hey. you don't want any more blood in your
hands. do you. Billy?
Please.
Hand me that weapon.
Let me help you. Billy. okay?
Hey.
How the fuck can get it. man?
What are you thinking?
I had a shot.
A shot.
Attention. old personnel.
This is an emergency.
You are under lock in.
Meaning you notice. this is not a drill.
I mean. this is not a drill.
We cannot grow when
we are in shame. and we
can't use shame to
change ourselves or others.
Renee Brown.
So. Tom Milliken was shot?
During a training exercise for selectees
from the hostage rescue team.
An exercise with live rounds?
Well. there's a lot to unpack here.
which is why Rebecca's asked the B.A.U.
to get eyes on it.
God's Allen has no yet.
He's on scene with J.J.
Tom Milliken was like family to him.
Brian?
What have I told you about phone calls on
Saturdays?
Emily. I wouldn't trouble you were it not
of the utmost importance.
I have in my possession evidence of a
pre-crime.
The fuck is a pre-crime?
Is that Tara?
Hi. Brian.
What's with this pre-crime?
It's the thing that happens before one
commits said crime.
No. I get the term.
What is it you think you have?
Well. there I say a manifesto of sorts
addressed to me by a fan.
It says. and here I quote. some may call
me a fan. but he must call me God.
And since this same declaration is typed
over and over again. like...
Do you remember Jack Nicholson's character
in the Shining?
Like. he starts to go wacko and he types
this one sentence over and over and over.
All work and no play. mate.
Yeah. I've seen the movie.
Well. you should see this.
Not only is he repeatedly
typed his affirmation.
but he's also
printed it into shapes.
The whole thing is so wack-a-doodle.
It's like...
And admittedly. I'm no profiler.
He's clearly itching to do no good.
Where are you?
Not far.
Literally around the proverbial corner.
He really should take a look see.
Okay. I'll have a visitor's pass waiting
for you.
God. what a brains it pours.
Okay. look. David and I can have this for
you.
Thank you.
Yeah. I have to get to the training
facility.
Yeah. yeah.
Or I'm gonna blow a fucking head off.
One!
Give him a second!
Two!
Who else knows?
With the lockdown. we're on a need-to-know
basis.
Director. AG President.
I'd say the news blackout holds another 24
hours.
But it's not like we have a lot of friends
in this administration.
An agent. non-agent
incident like this is exactly the
kind of pretext that they can
use to gut the department.
Peter. I'm so sorry.
It's still hard to believe.
Emily. this is Peter O'Connor.
Milliken's Chief of Staff.
Tom spoke very highly of you and your
team.
He brought you a case recently.
didn't he?
He did.
An equivocal death investigation. and
incredibly. he's now the subject of one.
Well. not so equivocal. I'm afraid.
Agent Selecty Billy Lowell fired the fatal
shot.
His weapon was the only one with live
rounds.
Yes. that seems evident.
However. officially.
there still needs to be a
determination of homicide
or accidental death.
Of course.
I know it's been a while since I was in
training. but is it common now for HRT to
conduct an exercise with actors and real
weapons?
No. it's not common.
But Tom had his own methodology.
and carte blanche from up top.
If he wanted to do something. he did it.
In this case. he felt
that the Selectees were
in need of a far more
real-world experience.
So did this exercise include the entire
Selecty class?
No. just Agent's Helm Barlow and Lowell.
They were a three-man unit.
Well. Agent Lowell is already
in custody. but we are going
to need to interview Agent's
Helm and Barlow as well.
Sure.
Has a medical examiner taken possession of
the body?
He's doing that right now.
Excuse me.
Luke.
I need a minute.
I tried to tell him that maybe he should
sit this one out.
Yeah.
Ryan.
Tara.
Well. what a delight it is to see you
again.
Where's Emily?
She thought it best that Tara and I took a
look at what you've got.
Okay.
The thing is. given
our previous history.
wouldn't be better if
Tara and I were to... No.
This way.
Some make home you a fan. but he must call
me God.
What I tell you?
Right. wrong. right. wrong.
When did you get this yesterday?
Yesterday.
I opened it today.
Uh-oh.
Postmark. Kensington. Pennsylvania.
You guys have seen this before.
haven't you?
Would you give us a second?
Don't touch anything.
It's virtually identical to what he said
to void.
But why does he send it to Garrity?
He is listening to Garrity's podcast.
But the message still goes to void.
I call telling son of a bitch.
he even capitalized the H in he.
But conveying some kind of God-like status
to void.
A status that this guy wants to share.
Okay. so what are you?
He's trying to prod Garrity into getting
void back on his podcast.
He hopes unbended me.
What's going to call him a God.
too?
Oh. God crawls the new one.
What are you thinking?
You're not going to like it. but.
um...
We need to take this to void.
Of course we need to take it to void.
I know we need to take it to void.
Wait. why would I not like that?
You're the one that doesn't want to be
around the guy.
But you're the one who
has to make sure that
Garrity doesn't feel
that we're shining him on.
We're completely shining him on.
But we can't let him share what he knows.
Yeah. you're right.
I know. I know.
Just because I look
like the guy's ex doesn't
mean that I have to be
the go-to strategy here.
Okay. I'm open to another.
I don't have another.
Look. I'm not asking you to babysit him.
Just tell him to go home and wait for
further instructions.
Let him feel like he's part of some
special investigation.
He trusts you.
Fine.
We really appreciate you bringing this to
our attention.
You free later tonight?
Excuse me?
Free. for like dinner. drinks.
I mean. I know the
timing isn't great in the
middle of a hunt for
a serial killer at all.
I'm married. Brian.
When did...
Mazeltub?
Thank you.
Yeah. lucky guy.
Gao.
Oh.
Yeah. so. let's focus here.
Brian. the BAU needs you to help us start
a special covert investigation.
Covert?
That is right.
So what we're going to need
you to do is go home now
and wait for this unset
to reach out to you again.
When I do. you're going to call me and
we'll proceed from there.
Call you.
Yes. that's right.
I don't have your number.
I'll give you my work number.
It's the switchboard.
Do you want to talk about it?
It's not good to constipate emotions.
I don't know.
I just said it like that.
Come on.
I don't have to tell you
that the deeper you push
down grief. the more
painful it's going to become.
You just did?
Just did what?
But you said you're not going to tell me
and then you did.
Oh. don't deflect.
It would be good to talk to somebody who
is in tune with you. namely Moa.
I see you.
I really do.
No. no.
You do.
I
know what you're going to say.
Too close to Milliken that I can't be
impartial.
You're on the case.
Now. I only want to remind you.
go where the evidence takes you.
Don't get out over
your skis on this one
because of your
relationship with the victim.
Tyler's waiting for you.
Thanks.
Why?
Three!
You know we're going
to sit here and watch this
over and over until
you answer my question.
I had...
Excuse me.
I had the shot.
I took the shot.
Hey. you're as fucked as...
What do you think Agent Bull refuses to
say anything except I had the shot?
I took the shot.
It was some kind of mantra.
Jesus Christ.
Is this something Milliken was hammering
into our heads?
What?
So Milliken designed
this no-win HRT scenario.
where the hot switch
taker can't be taken alive.
Now Billy. Joey. and I
were on the same team
together. so we'd each
have a goal at running point.
You mean being the guy taking the kill
shot?
Yeah.
Joey and I. we had no problem.
We could run through this thing with our
eyes closed.
Especially since we were handling your
standard laser pistols and naming a target
dummies. but... I don't know
what was going on with Billy.
Every single time he couldn't do it.
he just frees up.
Which totally set off Milliken.
I've seen Milliken's short fuse up close
in person.
It's not pretty.
That was his job. was to get Agent's field
ready.
Yeah. no doubt.
That's why Billy was driving Milliken
Batcha crazy.
Agent Bull.
Why the hesitation?
Lives are on the line here. son.
You do understand that.
Yes. yeah.
You want to watch by a ticket?
Yes. sir.
Sir. but... No more excuses.
If you have the shot. you take the shot.
Yes.
Yes. what?
Yes. sir.
No.
No. say it.
I have the shot.
I take the shot.
Alright.
Let's run it again.
Yeah.
We ran it again and again.
And that's when we went from the dummy
targets. to role players. laser pistols.
to actual guns.
With blanks.
But up in the ante did not help Billy.
He's fucking hopeless.
And personally. I thought
it was only going to be a
matter of time before he
completely lost his shit.
Being reprimanded is one thing.
Oh. I went way beyond being reprimanded.
Oh. you're clear.
Send it.
One!
Just give me what you want me to do.
Take the shot.
Sir. you kill her. we kill you.
Three!
Goddamnit!
Are you fucking kidding me?
You got another hostage killed.
What the actual fuck do I have to do to
get it through your fixed skull?
I have the shot.
Should I take it?
You... you take the shot.
Bingo.
Run it again.
And don't think I'm not ready for your D.O
.R.
Let's go!
D.O.R.
Know what that stands for.
I know you do.
Drop on request.
Hey. I get it.
Milliken's kicking your ass.
Threatening your future.
You couldn't take it anymore.
What else are you gonna do. right?
I shot him. but I didn't kill him.
Hey. Billy.
Stop fucking with me.
We're going through your locker.
Once we match the bullets in your stash
with the ones that were in the magazine...
I had blanks.
Just like everybody else. I swear to God.
But clearly you didn't.
I know!
I don't understand.
Milliken. he handed out the guns himself
and the blanks.
And we double checked everything before we
started.
You're saying you were using Milliken's
weapons in fake ammo?
Yes!
Stop!
I'm not!
Check it!
I swear!
Agent Lowell. during the
exercise. there's no win scenario
involved in an active
shooter in a business office.
But your fellow selectees
mentioned that Milliken had
gone a bit off-script.
making himself out to be this.
Crazy guy being denied his medication.
Were you or any of the selectees aware of
Milliken's own use of antidepressants?
Had he mentioned it?
Hey. hang on a second.
I want to talk to you in the ugly one.
What are you doing?
Tom told me he was taken to Talapram.
So what?
It's not relevant.
Luke. of course it's relevant.
Tom's behavior seems as if we were
becoming increasingly erratic.
No. it sounds like you're looking for an
excuse. not a motive.
Luke. Tyler.
Where are we?
We had no confession. but we're looking at
intentional homicide.
I'm not sure it wasn't suicide.
Suicide?
What are you talking about?
Listen to me.
If those guns were under Milliken's
control. and if his behavior was affected
either by misuse of prescriptions or
ignoring them. then it's possible.
No. it's not possible.
It's absolutely not possible.
Ballistics came back on the recovered
bullet.
It does match Milliken's own service
weapon.
Yeah.
And... I think he wanted
Agent Lowell to take that shot.
You think?
Tom spent his life helping vets with
mental health struggles.
He would never take his own life.
Hold on.
As I see it right now. you have two viable
theories.
Get it down to one.
He thinks it's another test.
Yeah. but not just for us.
He's gauging the levels of his own
restraint.
And you think that's why he sent it to
Garrity. and not to you.
For some reason he's trying to slow
himself down. and if he can't.
it's gonna cost somebody else their life.
Assuming he hasn't killed already.
He may have.
And now he wants to be called God. because
he feels he has the power to show mercy.
To choose who lives and who dies.
But not before you pass him the torch.
That's why he capitalizes the age when he
references you.
Without your seal of approval.
he won't feel that special something.
It may be another
reason to send it to
Garrity. trying to get
me on the podcast again.
Yeah. that's not gonna happen.
Okay. but maybe if you heard someone
else's voice on the podcast. it will
engage him enough so that he gets careless
enough to reveal himself.
Okay.
What are you thinking?
Me?
Yes.
No.
If he's my fan. he's trying
to walk in my footsteps.
which means he's read
every single one of your books.
Hey. they're not how-to books.
He respects you.
You led the team that led to my capture.
If he hears your
voice live on Brian's
podcast. I don't know
how he can not reach out.
You're the only person he might surrender
to.
I mean...
because he trusts you.
You know I'm right.
Otherwise you wouldn't be here.
Hey. sorry to interrupt.
Not a problem.
What do you need?
In reviewing the incident reports.
we weren't able to find one describing
Milliken and pulling a service weapon on
Agent Lowell.
Wish I could say I'm surprised.
Was a report file?
Not to me. but I am now hearing rumors
that many anonymous reports sent to the
Office of Professional Responsibility may
have been slow-rolled.
Friends in high places?
It's all hearsay. right?
All I know from personal experiences.
he got results.
If he passed you. you were the best of the
best.
So you're saying they
were willing to look the
other way. if we cross
the line now and again?
You're saying that. but I wouldn't
disagree.
This new class. killing me.
It's triggering all my old habits.
I'm just not... I don't know.
No.
I think you'll get the end done.
I don't know.
Talk to me.
Cindy. she's not happy.
Come on. you guys.
You've been through worse?
I am.
That's the thing with getting older and
wiser.
You start to realize
you don't have to spend
the rest of your life
putting up with shit.
You think you're putting up with me?
Cindy!
Come on. she has spent the better part of
her life dealing with mine.
You guys going to counseling?
Yeah. twice a week.
Still.
It's me.
What the hell is going on?
I'm bringing work home with me.
I'm barking orders at her like she's one
of my trainees.
It's bad.
Look. a wise man once
told me that it's one thing to
identify the problem and it's
another thing to do the work.
Words.
Yeah. until you put them into action.
Don't know what I would do without her.
You know?
Look.
maybe you need some time off.
You're empty.
Another?
No.
No. I'm good.
Come on.
One more round.
On me.
Sure.
At a point.
That's the spirit.
Hey. so it looks like we have to
re-interview all the selectees.
You okay?
It's not fair.
Death rarely is.
Not death.
Death.
Grief.
I'm sorry.
You're the last person I should be saying.
No. I get it.
I don't want you to think
that I'm trying to compare
what you went through
to what I'm going through.
Luke. stop.
I understand.
Everyone experiences grief in their own
way.
I mean. Jesus. it's been over a
year and not a day goes by where
I don't see Will's eyes. or his
sense of humor in the voice.
It's. um. it's a fucking brutal.
Grief is not kind or rational or fair.
But trust me. if you don't give yourself
this space to feel if you cut yourself off
from those feelings. it gets way worse.
Yeah.
So. what can we do to give you the space
you need?
I thought I could take the lead on this
case. but I am.
I need you in time. isn't it?
I have my back.
We got you.
Agent Barlow. apart from
his actions during training.
what else can you tell us
about Milliken's behavior?
I didn't really spend any time with him
outside of the exercises.
What about before briefings or after
training exercises?
Let me check in during his office hours.
Well. yeah. sometimes I guess.
I suppose it was true that he was all fire
and brimstone during the training.
but lately. when he was alone.
it started to get weird.
How so?
Well. I went to see him about this
procedural question.
And I walked in there. he sat behind his
desk. and he didn't see me. but I saw him.
And he was crying.
Yeah. Joey told me about it.
He said he was like ugly crying.
It didn't make any sense.
I mean. yeah. we were prepping for our
next eval. but it was a low stress day.
Clearly. something got under his skin.
Let me tell you something.
I've known Tom Milliken for over 20 years.
I've never. never once seen him cry.
Yeah. well. neither have I. technically.
Okay. it's just what Joey told me.
Joey also couldn't tell us what was
troubling Agent Milliken.
Can you?
Okay. not for sure.
There was a rumor.
His wife was leaving him.
Cindy.
Is that his wife?
Yeah.
Look. like I said. I can't
say 100% for certain
that his wife was leaving
him and I know word.
Are you okay?
Cindy.
Luke.
Good to see you.
I'm sorry.
We took this the day he retired from the
Army.
Yeah.
Yeah. I remember those days.
New deployment every six months.
Phone calls home.
Or no phone calls for weeks.
After he retired. he
said we'd finally settle
down by a house. stop
moving from base to base.
You know. he told me that the best
decision he ever made was joining the FBI.
He said it felt like you two finally...
Finally had time for each other.
Right.
Sometimes the people
that help others the
most. they just can't
seem to help themselves.
I'm not sure what you mean.
Cindy. the B.A.U.
is in the process of putting the pieces
together of what happened.
And some information has
come to light that suggests
Tom might have been
acting out self-destructively.
And maybe he was suicidal.
Tom?
Okay. who told you that?
I'm not at liberty to say...
Absolutely not. Luke.
And I'm not just saying that because I'm
his wife.
Cindy. were you leaving him?
Wow.
I wouldn't ask if I didn't have to.
I don't even believe it.
It's just that one of
Tom's trainees saw him
here in his office
alone. crying hysterically.
Oh.
One man sees another man crying.
and so he must be suicidal.
Look. your behavioral profiler.
you should know better.
I know Tom was struggling with how much he
was hurting you.
Yes.
Yes. 30 plus years of Tom burying his
feelings was killing our relationship.
But Tom was nothing if not never saved
die. right?
I mean. he found a new therapist.
He got a new medication.
And finally. he was getting in touch with
his emotions. his truth.
And yes. recently it made him cry.
which was good for him and for us.
Tell you weren't getting a divorce.
As long as he was doing the work.
I was never going to leave him.
And I made sure he knew that.
Well. so then as far as
you're concerned. the
only thing Tom was having
trouble with was work.
For men like Tom. who felt a profound
responsibility to prepare the next
generation of warriors.
he had a hard time
deciding whether he
wanted to be loved or feared.
I loved him.
I'm not sure many others would agree.
And with this last
class. he told me that the
best lesson he could give
them was to drop them.
That's why that young man decided to take
Tom's life. isn't it?
Isn't it?
You got a minute?
Yeah. of course.
Look. I've been doing. like we said. and
following the evidence where it takes me.
Obviously. Lowell
shot Tom and he neither
accidentally nor
intentionally took his life.
So. suicide?
No.
I don't know why I didn't think about this
from the start. but although Tom was
fixated on Lowell's shortcomings. he
would have held his whole unit accountable.
All for one. one for all.
That kind of bond is everything.
If Tom was threatening D.O.R..
he was threatening to drop all three
agents' electees. including agents Barlow
and Helm.
So you think one or
both of them intentionally
slipped Lowell a
magazine with live rounds?
Lowell's history with Tom would make him
the perfect fall guy.
That didn't work. they had a plan B.
Milliken's erratic behavior would suggest
the possibility of suicide.
Either way. they were covered.
Until now.
No. until we can prove it. and we only
have an hour before the news breaks.
Luke!
Good work.
You theory makes sense?
Based on our interviews.
I'm not sure Barlow
and Helm are capable
of that level of deception.
I know. but I think that there's a way to
find out for sure.
We should give Lowell a cognitive.
That's right.
His trauma is keeping
him from telling us exactly
what happened before
and during that exercise.
You should do it.
No.
Look. he and I got off on the wrong foot.
He's not going to be able to relax.
You don't think your presence won't put
him right back in the mindset?
I do.
We'll be right here if you need us.
No.
I don't want to do that.
Agent Lowell.
No!
I'm sorry.
Okay?
I want to be honest with you.
Agent Milliken. Tom. and I were very
close.
He was like family. and...
Look. hearing some of the things that he
said and did. it was hard.
Because that wasn't fair to you.
I apologize.
All right.
Now. look. if you're willing to do what we
call a cognitive interview. I believe that
that could really help us determine what
happened.
And together we can find the truth.
Okay?
Gotta restart.
Why did you join the FBI?
Growing up. I never
thought I was enough to have
made sure that I needed
to prove something to him.
So. I applied to the FBI. and got
accepted.
My dad couldn't believe it.
You know. then with expectations.
everything just grew.
Yeah.
Especially when I decided to go out for
the hostage rescue team.
That's when I started having panic attacks
for the first time.
Major Milliken wasn't sympathetic to that.
He was.
And wasn't Jekyll and Hyde. you know.
He. uh. recommended a
counselor. but kept coming back
to. at the end of the day.
nobody has time for my shit.
Lives were on the line.
But you didn't quit?
I saw something to prove.
Dude. father?
Yeah.
An agent. Milliken. reminded you of him?
He did.
Every time he would. uh. he would yell at
me. I could. I could hear my dad's voice.
and it would. literally. it would make me
shake.
Not really.
I want you to close your eyes.
All right.
Take a deep breath.
All right. let's go back.
All right. Agent Milliken hands out the
weapons.
He demonstrates that the magazines are
loaded with blanks. correct?
Yes. he does.
But Joey Owen and me. we. we double check.
What happens next?
We started the exercise at that.
Are you sure?
Yes.
Okay. now. you close your eyes.
Agent Milliken barks at
you guys to get locked and
loaded to get your ass
started with the exercise.
Goddamn it. little.
Lives are on the line here. son.
You can't hack it.
People die.
It's as simple as that.
Hey. look at me.
You think this is abuse?
You can't handle me?
You can't handle this job.
But I guess the bureau needs its desk
jockeys. too.
You want to watch by a ticket.
otherwise.
I hear my dad.
No more fucking excuses.
And I start to shake.
You take the shot!
Understand?
I start getting sick. and I can't stop.
I threw up.
What does Milliken do?
He was pissed.
I mean. everyone was pissed.
Joe and Owen. they were like. Jesus.
Here we go again.
Alright. what happens now?
Then I...
Felt a hand on my back.
Who's a hand?
It's okay.
You got this. Billy.
There's no corner.
Billiken's chief of staff.
Yes.
I remember now.
He...
He did this pat down on me.
Okay. Billy.
You got this.
Dropped.
Shit.
Thanks.
Jesus Christ.
I thought he was trying to help me.
Reload. reload!
I...
I don't understand.
Why would he do that to me?
All that mattered to him was finding
someone to take the fall.
But I pulled a goddamn trigger.
It's just going to be my word against him.
Who's going to believe me?
Thanks. Peter.
Not a problem.
You did get those reports I sent.
We did.
Turns out there's another item we need to
take a look at.
What's that?
We thank Agent Milliken. kept a journal.
And is safe.
When his wife was here
collecting his belongings.
she said that you weren't
around to open it for her.
No. but I can grab it now.
Um.
I'm not seeing a journal.
You step aside.
Peter O'Connor. you're under arrest for
the murder of Agent Tom Milliken.
What the fuck are you doing?
Ballistics confirmed that Agent Milliken
was killed by his own bullet.
The ammunition he used was always kept
right here in this safe.
Cindy said her husband and one other
person had that combination.
You were that other person.
This is crazy.
I'd given everything I have to this man.
We can see that.
But you couldn't help yourself.
You pointed us in the direction of OPR.
All those anonymous complaints.
One of which was for a selectee who got D
.O.R.D.
And one week later took his own life.
Matthew O'Connor.
Your brother.
And nobody cared.
So you had to take matters into your own
hands.
OPR is a fucking joke.
What's the goddamn point?
The rules are never applied equally.
Someone always gets special treatment.
Your brother deserved better.
And Milliken got exactly what he deserved.
And what about Billy?
He didn't deserve any of this.
Get him out of here.
Test one. test two. test.
How can a clam cram a clean cream can?
Well. if I may say your script is solid.
But I'd like to propose a
few tiny punch-ups. like
maybe a couple more bumpers
to my commercial breaks.
No. you stick to the words on the page.
Hey. we've gone over this before.
Can you honestly not comprehend the
gravity of what we're doing here?
I can. and I do.
But seriously. if this guy's a fan of the
podcast. he'll probably be able to tell
the difference between me and entrapment
me.
It's not entrapment.
You know what I mean.
Right?
We're all set here.
Okay?
And you're gonna do great.
Right now.
When we're on the
air. we're hoping that the
scripted words everyone
ties this fan to call him.
And then we need to keep him on the line
long enough either to track his location.
Or get a decent slice of profile.
I do know you did tell me.
Hey. we also told you if you deviate one
syllable from the script here.
somebody could die.
Are we clear?
Crystal.
Now let's make podcast history.
Whoa!
Hello. Brian.
Special guest appearance?
He's just here to observe.
Ignore him.
I mean it.
Do not say one word about him being here.
Okay. but wouldn't it
make more sense for the
guy to just be able
to talk directly to him?
No more questions.
Stay unscripted.
Penelope?
Okay. Emily. ready when you are.
Standing by the trace incoming calls.
Welcome to a very special episode of the
Sicarius Files.
We are coming to you live from
the FBI. and we are joined by
renowned author and supervisory
special agent David Rossi.
Thanks for being here. David.
Thanks for having me. Brian.
This is a live episode. folks.
so don't be shy.
We're taking calls
and you can find our
number at the official
Sicarius Files website.
So. David. there's so much to talk about
with your storied career. but for our
purposes we'll focus solely on Elias
Voigt. the Sicarius killer.
I'd like to start at. well. to the
beginning.
So tell me. when were you first made aware
of Dr. Tara Lewis' discovery of the buried
shipping container in Yakama County?
My question for agent Ross. he has to do
with Benjamin Reeves.
Is it true that Reeves basically helped
avoid that second street is like the most
common street name in America?
So. in that surveillance video from the
hardware store. well. I couldn't ID Voigt.
I was able to see him reaching into his
back pocket trying to mute his cell phone.
Which then led you to
conduct a trace of cell
phone calls to and from
that region of the country?
Yes. that's right.
Thanks for your call. Oliver.
So. you run that trace and you get
hundreds of calls you have to go through.
but since you know
the timing of the calls.
you're able to pretty
much zero in on Seattle.
That's right.
And I will pause you there because we are
getting another caller.
Hi. you're live on the air with Brian
Garrity and SSA David Rossi.
With whom do we have the pleasure of
speaking?
Call me. God.
God.
Okay. we will call you God.
Do you have a question?
Why security spiders?
Camily. I've isolated the phone line.
Can you get a trace?
Not exactly.
Is he running countermeasures?
He is definitely a student of voice.
Okay. I want you to keep the phone line
open but pause the live stream right now.
Okay. yeah.
The Sicarius case.
As a fan of the podcast.
of course. you are familiar
with Elias Voigt's testimony
regarding the spiders.
Let David Rossi answer.
Why Sicarius?
I recognize that voice.
It's Lance Kingston.
But he can't be your guy?
No. he's not.
He's his hostage.
You're not satisfied with Voigt's own
answer.
I am not.
Were the Sicarius
spiders part of Voigt's
counterintelligence training
and interrogation tactics?
In a previous episode. I
described how I embellished
certain aspects of the Sicarius
files for dramatic purposes.
The fact is. I lied.
Elias Voigt has nothing
to do with the FBI and is
not associated with any
government agency or program.
Are you saying Voigt is unique?
He's rare. but not unique.
Much like yourself.
Are you trying to profile me?
Oh. I couldn't even if I wanted to because
I'm not speaking to you.
I'm speaking to Lance Kingston.
a man you're holding captive.
And he'll be talking to me.
I'm so close.
I'm so. so close.
We don't have much more time.
Okay. I know. I know.
And I know the reason why you're still
holding Lance captive and using him as
your proxy is Lance's death will satisfy
nothing for you.
Ramona Havener.
What about him?
Voigt spared her life and her testimony
led to his conviction.
We didn't spare Ramona.
He turned her over to Arthur Keel.
whom he knew would abuse and strangle her.
But Arthur Keel did not.
No. because we found her first.
Why didn't Voigt kill her himself?
Well. that was. um... That was because
Ramona reminded him of his ex-wife. Sidney.
Okay. I got him.
I got him.
He's at the Stashall Storage Facility in
Richmond. Virginia.
It's a garage unit being rented by Lance
Kingston.
Stashall Storage. Richmond. Virginia.
You want it?
God?
Are you still with us?
He's here.
Is who here?
Voigt.
No.
Oh. God!
I saw him!
Lance?
No. don't!
Stop. stop. stop!
Right.
Protect the elephant!
He's here!
Please!
No. he's going to kill me!
Yes. he's here!
No!
No. no. no!
Except... Voigt is here!
Why is Voigt is here?
He can talk to him!
What just happened?
You just caused a man's death.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today